Convert the tactics chapter to prodn (#15015)
coq/coq: doc/sphinx/proof-engine/tactics.rst

along the way has been proven.  In this case, the proof of `A /\\ B` begins
with that formula as the goal.  This can be transformed into two subgoals,
`A` and `B`, followed by the proofs of `A` and `B`.  Coq and its tactics

> primarily use backward reasoning.

Author: Google says "backwards" is an adverb, while "backward" is both an adjective (as here) or an adverb.  Is it any different in Brit-speak?

> primarily use backward reasoning.

Reviewer: Hmm it might be. If it sounds good to you in American, then it is probably OK.

> primarily use backward reasoning.

Author: The doc currently uses "backward" 19 times and "backwards" 8 times.

The Cambridge dictionary says:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/185275050-c7a9a7df-dce9-4a18-a031-1e59c2e1ccbb.png)

But still about _**adverbs**_.

Bindings
~~~~~~~~

Tactics that take a term as an argument may also accept :token:`bindings` to
specify the values to assign unbound variables in a term.
Bindings can be given by position or name.  Generally these appear in the form

> :n:`with @bindings`.

Author: These don't use one_term_with_bindings, so need I'll mention two forms:

| "left" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "eleft" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "right" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "eright" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "constructor" OPT nat_or_var OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "econstructor" OPT ( nat_or_var OPT ( "with" bindings ) )
| "split" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "esplit" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| one_term OPT ( "with" bindings )

  .. insertprodn bindings bindings

  .. prodn::
     bindings ::= {+ @one_term }
     | {+ ( {| @ident | @natural } := @term ) }

> .. todo PR: "must not be specified" below is correct?

Reviewer 2: There is no "must not be specified" left-over, so I don't know what this refers to, but if I assume right, yes, this is correct: when some arguments can be automatically inferred, they must not be specified in the first form.

appearance in the relevant term.  For some tactics, bindings for all free variables
must be provided, such as for :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct`, :tacn:`elim`
and :tacn:`case`.  Other tactics automatically generate some or all
of the bindings from the conclusion or a hypothesis, such as :tacn:`apply` and
:tacn:`constructor` and its variants.  In this case, only instances
for the dependent products that are not bound in the conclusion of the relevant term
are required (and permitted).

The second form binds variables by name (if :n:`@ident` is given), or
by unifying with the ``n``-th non-dependent premise of the relevant term
(if :n:`@natural` is given).

.. exn:: No such binder.

>    :undocumented:

Author: I added the two message you have.  Should I drop "No such binder."?  I see it in the source code.

>    :undocumented:

Reviewer 2: The error message "No such binder." can be triggered as well. See the first part of my message:

>According to my tests, this error is triggered when using the form `(@natural := ...)` with an incorrect `@natural` (too big or zero)

Bindings
~~~~~~~~

Tactics that take a term as an argument may also accept :token:`bindings` to
specify the values to assign unbound variables in a term.
Bindings can be given by position or name.  Generally these appear in the form

> :n:`with @bindings`.

Reviewer 2: Since the text says "these appear in the form...", I think it would make sense to have the `one_term_with_bindings` appear just below. But do as you prefer.

Author: I left it as-is.  There are a bunch of tactics that have `with bindings` that don't use `one_term_with_bindings`, i.e.

```
| "elim" one_term_with_bindings OPT ( "using" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) )
| "specialize" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) OPT ( "as" simple_intropattern )
| "left" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "right" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "econstructor" OPT ( nat_or_var OPT ( "with" bindings ) )
| "setoid_rewrite" OPT [ "->" | "<-" ] one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) OPT ( "at" rewrite_occs ) OPT ( "in" ident )
| "soft" "functional" "induction" LIST1 one_term OPT ( "using" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) ) OPT ( "as" simple_intropattern )      (* funind plugin *)
| "setoid_rewrite" OPT [ "->" | "<-" ] one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) "in" ident "at" rewrite_occs
| "substitute" OPT [ "->" | "<-" ] one_term OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "eelim" one_term_with_bindings OPT ( "using" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) )
| "eleft" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "contradiction" OPT ( one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) )
| "constructor" OPT nat_or_var OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "functional" "induction" term OPT ( "using" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) ) OPT ( "as" simple_intropattern )      (* funind plugin *)
| "using" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings ) OPT occurrences
| "eright" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "split" OPT ( "with" bindings )
| "esplit" OPT ( "with" bindings )
```

which is different from `one_term_with_bindings` 

```
one_term_with_bindings: [
| OPT ">" one_term OPT ( "with" bindings )
]
```

Do you think some of these tactics should be generalized to use `one_term_with_bindings`?  BTW, what does the `">"` mean, I can add that with `one_term_with_bindings`.

Author: I removed "Refine passed ill-formed term." and "Invalid argument." exceptions, I don't see them in the code, either.

Reviewer 2: `fullGrammar` has `constr_with_bindings` which is exactly `one_term OPT ( "with" bindings )` and `constr_with_bindings_arg`, which is what has become `one_term_with_bindings` (following [this short discussion](https://github.com/coq/coq/pull/13470#discussion_r531680189) where we didn't consider the two cases), includes the `OPT ">"`. Maybe we should rebind `one_term_with_bindings` to `constr_with_bindings` to be able to use it pervasively...

Reviewer 2: According to this test:

```
Goal (True -> True) -> True.
intro H.
apply > H.
```

and this error message:

```
keep/clear modifiers apply only to hypothesis names
```

`>` is a keep/clear modifier, meaning that it can clear a hypothesis name when it is applied in tactics that would keep it otherwise (`apply`) and keep it in tactics that would remove it otherwise (`destruct`).

So really, it should not be kept part of the `one_term_with_bindings` form (and should probably be spliced instead).

Reviewer 2: BTW, I wonder if this modifier is actually used in practice and if it could make sense to remove it instead of documenting it.

Author: Updated.  I temporarily removed the `>` production to see whether CI relies on it.  It's a bit odd to have `>` mean opposite things depending on where it's used.  I'll consider updating how this is presented shortly.

Reviewer 2: It looks like there are no users in the whole CI. I propose to remove this feature in a separate PR, so that it can be discussed separately, with anyone who wants to.

Author: I'll leave it to you to create that PR.  (Don't forget uses of '>' in `induction_arg` and `oriented_rewriter`.

Reviewer 2: See #16407. For now the deprecation is exactly where you had commented out code, so this should be fine, right?

Reviewer 3: > BTW, I wonder if this modifier is actually used in practice and if it could make sense to remove it instead of documenting it.

It is not documented but I believe it to be both convenient in practice and logically motivated: it allows to enforce on the fly (that is w/o using `clear`) that an hypothesis is used linearly, and at the same time it lightens the context for the rest of the proof from now useless hypotheses.

I did not document (nor even initiated a discussion about it) because (chat échaudé craint l'eau froide) I feared that some ssreflect people (again) opposed to transfer "cool" ideas from ssreflect to other tactics. I agree that this is a pity... (scientifically speaking, there is no other road than aiming at some convergence).

Reviewer 3: Also,t here might be better concrete syntax for it.

Reviewer 2: What is the equivalent syntax in SSReflect?

Author: > (chat échaudé craint l'eau froide) I feared that some ssreflect people (again) opposed to transfer "cool" ideas from ssreflect to other tactics. I agree that this is a pity... (scientifically speaking, there is no other road than aiming at some convergence).

If a tree falls in the forest and no one is around to hear it, does it make a sound?  Undocumented features don't exist :-).

Seeking some convergence between regular tactics and SSR sounds like a worthy endeavor.

Author: Thanks for explaining.

  .. insertprodn bindings bindings

  .. prodn::
     bindings ::= {+ @one_term }
     | {+ ( {| @ident | @natural } := @term ) }

.. todo PR: "must not be specified" below is correct?

The first form binds free variables in the left-to-right order of their first
appearance in the relevant term.  For some tactics, all free variables
must be provided, while other tactics automatically generate some or all
of the bindings from the conclusion or a hypothesis.  In the latter case,

> the automatically bound free variables must not be specified.  Those tactics

Reviewer 2: "Those tactics" does not sound entirely unambiguous. What about "The former"?

Author: Reworded to this:

```
The first form binds free variables in the left-to-right order of their first
appearance in the relevant term.  For some tactics, bindings for all free variables
must be provided, such as for :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct`, :tacn:`elim`
and :tacn:`case`.  Other tactics automatically generate some or all
of the bindings from the conclusion or a hypothesis, such as :tacn:`apply` and
:tacn:`constructor` and its variants.  In this case, only instances
for the dependent products that are not bound in the conclusion of the relevant term
are required.
```

include :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct`, :tacn:`elim`
and :tacn:`case`, for which the :token:`one_term`\s
provide instances for all the dependent products in the type of the relevant term.
In the case of :tacn:`apply`, or of :tacn:`constructor` and its variants, only instances
for the dependent products that are not bound in the conclusion of the relevant term
are required.

The second form binds variables by name (if :n:`@ident` is given), or

> by unifying with the the ``n``-th non-dependent

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
by unifying with the ``n``-th non-dependent
```

Bindings
~~~~~~~~

Tactics that take a term as an argument may also accept :token:`bindings` to
specify the values to assign unbound variables in a term.
Bindings can be given by position or name.  Generally these appear in the form
:n:`@one_term_with_bindings` or :n:`with @bindings`, depending on the tactic.

For some tactics, bindings for all free variables
must be provided, such as for :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct`, :tacn:`elim`
and :tacn:`case`.  Other tactics automatically generate some or all
of the bindings from the conclusion or a hypothesis, such as :tacn:`apply` and
:tacn:`constructor` and its variants.  In this case, only instances
for the :term:`dependent premises <dependent premise>` that are not bound in

> the conclusion of the relevant term are required (and permitted).

Reviewer 2: Sorry, but this is still not good. This paragraph really was specific to the first case only. Example illustrating this:

```coq
Goal 0 = 0.
Fail apply @eq_refl with 0.
(* Not the right number of missing arguments (expected 0). *)
apply @eq_refl with (x := 0).
(* works, even though the (x := 0) part is useless because Coq can infer it on its own. *)
```

Author: OK, I moved it to the ``` :n:`{+ @one_term }` ``` case.

Bindings
~~~~~~~~

Tactics that take a term as an argument may also accept :token:`bindings` to
specify the values to assign unbound variables in a term.
Bindings can be given by position or name.  Generally these appear in the form
:n:`@one_term_with_bindings` or :n:`with @bindings`, depending on the tactic.

  .. insertprodn bindings bindings

  .. prodn::
     bindings ::= {+ @one_term }
     | {+ ( {| @ident | @natural } := @term ) }

The first form binds free variables in the left-to-right order of their first
appearance in the relevant term.  For some tactics, bindings for all free variables
must be provided, such as for :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct`, :tacn:`elim`
and :tacn:`case`.  Other tactics automatically generate some or all
of the bindings from the conclusion or a hypothesis, such as :tacn:`apply` and
:tacn:`constructor` and its variants.  In this case, only instances

> for the dependent products that are not bound in the conclusion of the relevant term

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the :term:`dependent premises <dependent premise>` that are not bound in the conclusion of the relevant term
```

are required (and permitted).

The second form binds variables by name (if :n:`@ident` is given), or
by unifying with the ``n``-th :term:`premise` of the relevant term
(if :n:`@natural` is given).

   .. insertprodn one_term_with_bindings one_term_with_bindings

   .. prodn::
      one_term_with_bindings ::= @one_term {? with @bindings }

In this form, bindings for variables in :n:`@one_term` are typically determined
by unifying :n:`@one_term` with a tactic-dependent part of the context, with any

> remaining unbound variables provided by the :n:`bindings`.

Reviewer 2: This explanation seems to contradict half of the "first form" paragraph, and indeed does not match what is described as the behavior for destruct. My suggestion would be to remove the paragraph entirely (it does not seem necessary to me) and to just insert `one_term_with_bindings` above `bindings` in the previous `prodn` (with no added explanation).

Author: "In this form" on line 133 refers to one_term_with_bindings.  It made perfect sense to me :-).

I think you'll like what I did.

Bindings
~~~~~~~~

> :token:`bindings` specify the values to assign to unbound variables in a term.

Author: > Also, we might want to make clear that "unbound" variables can also be automatically bounded by tactics depending on the context.

Is that a general pattern or does it apply to a small number of tactics?  If it's the latter, I think that should be in individual tactic descriptions.  I would need an example and more detail to put it here.

> :token:`bindings` specify the values to assign to unbound variables in a term.

Reviewer 2: I think it's a general pattern.

> :token:`bindings` specify the values to assign to unbound variables in a term.

Author: OK, I revised it with some guesswork, please take a close look at it.

Bindings can be given by position or name.  Generally these appear in the form
:n:`with @bindings`.

  .. insertprodn bindings bindings

  .. prodn::
     bindings ::= {+ @one_term }
     | {+ ( {| @ident | @natural } := @term ) }

+ The first form binds free variables in the left-to-right order of their first
  appearance in the relevant term.

+ The second form binds variables by name (if :n:`@ident` is given), or
  by unifying with the the ``n``-th non-dependent premise of the relevant term
  (if :n:`@natural` is given).

In the first form, the interpretation of the :token:`one_term`\s depend on which
  tactic they appear in.  For :tacn:`induction`, :tacn:`destruct`, :tacn:`elim`
  and :tacn:`case`, the :token:`one_term`\s
  provide instances for all the dependent products in the type of :n:`@term__tac` while in
  the case of :tacn:`apply`, or of :tacn:`constructor` and its variants, only instances
  for the dependent products that are not bound in the conclusion of :n:`@term__tac`

>   are required.

Author: I removed the duplicate items and (I think) out-of-place details on which tactics require which bindings, so much shorter.  Let me know what you think.

+ In the second form, if an :token:`ident` is specified, it must be bound in the
  type of the relevant term and provides an instance for the
  parameter of this name. If a :token:`natural` is specified, it refers to
  the ``n``-th non-dependent premise of :n:`@term__tac`.

  .. exn:: No such binder.
     :undocumented:

  .. exn:: Not the right number of missing arguments.
     :undocumented:

.. insertprodn one_term_with_bindings one_term_with_bindings

.. prodn::

>    one_term_with_bindings ::= {? > } @one_term {? with @bindings }

Author: I put it in the apply tactic.

* :n:`[ {+| {* @intropattern } } ]` — splits an inductive type that has
  :ref:`multiple constructors <intropattern_cons_note>`

>   such as :n:`A \/ B` into multiple subgoals.  The number of :token:`intropattern`\s

Reviewer: What does `\s` do here?

Reviewer 2: The `\` is needed to add an "s" to intropattern without a space but outside the token style (I guess another solution would be to use :token:`intropatterns <intropattern>`, but we've never done this so far).

Author: I prefer using `\` so the "s" is in a different font from the token name.  (We probably have nonterminals that only differ by a final "s".)

Applying theorems
---------------------

.. tacn:: exact @one_term

   Directly gives the exact proof term for the goal.
   ``exact p`` succeeds iff :n:`@one_term` and the type of ``p`` are unifiable (see
   :ref:`Conversion-rules`).

   .. exn:: Not an exact proof.
      :undocumented:

   .. tacn:: eexact @one_term

      Behaves like :tacn:`exact` but can handle terms and
      goals with existential variables.

      .. todo PR: Let's pick the best wording for these e* tactics

>          and I'll replicate that wording for all of them.

Author: If you're willing to check the wording for all the e* tactics, that would be great.  There seems to be a good bit of variation.

   .. exn:: No such assumption.
      :undocumented:

   .. tacn:: eassumption

      Behaves like :tacn:`assumption` but is able to handle
      goals and hypotheses with existential variables.

.. tacn:: {? simple } {? notypeclasses } refine @one_term
   :name: refine

   Behaves like :tacn:`exact` but allows holes (denoted by ``_``
   or :n:`(_ : @type)`) in :n:`@one_term`. :tacn:`refine` generates as many

>    subgoals as there are remaining holes in the elaborated term. The type

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   subgoals as there are remaining holes in the elaborated term. The types
```

Reviewer: See below

Reviewer 2: @Alizter Note that you can do suggestions spanning multiple lines by first selecting the few lines on which you want to comment.

>    of the holes must be inferable or declared by an explicit cast

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   of these holes must be inferable or declared by an explicit cast
```

Reviewer: Alternatively to the two suggestions you could reword it as "the type of a hole".

           intros; absurd (Fail = Fail); trivial.
         Defined.

   .. exn:: Cannot infer a term for this placeholder.
      :name: Cannot infer a term for this placeholder. (refine)

      There is a hole in the term you gave whose type cannot be inferred. Put a
      cast around it.

   Setting :opt:`Debug` ``"unification"`` enables printing traces of
   unification steps used during elaboration/typechecking and the
   :tacn:`refine` tactic. ``"ho-unification"`` prints information
   about higher order heuristics.

.. tacn:: apply {+, {? > } @one_term {? with @bindings } } {? @in_hyp_as }

   .. insertprodn in_hyp_as as_ipat

   .. prodn::
      in_hyp_as ::= in {+, @ident {? @as_ipat } }
      as_ipat ::= as @simple_intropattern

   Uses unification to match the type of each :n:`@one_term` with the goal
   (to do backward reasoning) or with a hypothesis (to do forward reasoning).
   Specifying multiple :n:`@one_term {? with @bindings }` is equivalent to
   giving each one serially, left to right, as separate `apply` tactics.

   The type of :n:`@one_term` consists of zero or more :term:`premises <premise>`
   followed by a :ref:`conclusion <conclusion_meaning_2>`,

>    i.e. it has the form :n:`{* @term__premise -> } @term__conclusion`.

Author: Can you give an example with a forall and suggest the correct form to show here?  (If it doesn't lend itself to being written out it grammatical form we can modify the text.

>    i.e. it has the form :n:`{* @term__premise -> } @term__conclusion`.

Reviewer 2: Basically, a correct way of generalizing this would be to use the dependent arrow instead of the non-dependent arrow, i.e., `{* forall {| @binder | _ : @term_premise }, } @term_conclusion`, where any case of a `forall _ : A` could be rewritten `A ->` by using the non-dependent arrow notation. However, this may not be the most readable form to present to the reader.

This is also not so interesting since statements may be equivalently restated with all `forall`s at the beginning, so instead, we could show the form `forall @binders, {* @term_premise -> } @term_conclusion` and then mention in the text that interleaving of binders and premises is also supported.

Any theorem from the standard library (e.g., `Nat.add_comm`) that we `apply` is an example.

   replaces an as-yet unproven goal `B` with `A`.  Forward reasoning with the same
   :n:`@one_term` changes a hypothesis with type `A` to `B`.  (Hypotheses are
   proven propositions that are valid only within the context that contains them.)

   Unification creates a map from the variables in the type of :n:`@one_term`
   to matching subterms of the goal or hypothesis.
   The matching subterms are then substituted into the type of :n:`@one_term`
   when generating the updated goal or hypothesis.  Unmatched premises become
   new subgoals with similar substitutions.  If no match is found, the
   tactic fails.

   The goal and hypothesis cases are described separately for clarity.

   :n:`@one_term`
     If :n:`@one_term` is an :n:`@ident`, it is the name of
     a theorem, lemma or hypothesis whose type is given in the
     theorem statement or shown in the context.  Otherwise it is a proof term whose
     type can be displayed with :cmd:`Check` :n:`@one_term`.

   Without :n:`@in_hyp_as` (the goal case)
     If the goal matches all of the type of :n:`@one_term` (both premises and
     the conclusion), the tactic proves the goal.

>      Otherwise, the tactic matches the goal against the conclusion of :n:`@one_term`.

Author: I'll add that as an example.  Can you give an example with foralls?  In either case, there are arrows, right?

>      Otherwise, the tactic matches the goal against the conclusion of :n:`@one_term`.

Reviewer 2: There might be only dependent arrows (foralls). Example:

```coq
Require Import Arith.

Goal forall x, 0 + x = x + 0.
apply Nat.add_comm.
Show Proof. (* (Nat.add_comm 0) *)
Qed.

(* This second example just highlights that you are always more powerful by introducing more before calling apply. *)
Goal forall x, x + 0 = 0 + x.
Fail apply Nat.add_comm. (* Unable to unify "?M1071 + m = m + ?M1071" with "m + 0 = 0 + m". *)
intros.
apply Nat.add_comm.
Show Proof. (* (fun x : nat => Nat.add_comm x 0) *)
Qed.
```

     If the match succeeds, the tactic replaces the current goal with a subgoal for
     each non-dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term`.  See the example
     :ref:`here <apply_backward>`.

     If the conclusion of the type of :token:`one_term` does
     not match the goal *and* the conclusion is an inductive type isomorphic to
     a tuple type, then each component of the tuple is recursively matched to
     the goal in the left-to-right order.

     .. todo PR: does the next paragraph apply to the hypothesis case, too?

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Author: I added the first example.  Not sure the second example adds much for the reader and the first example alone is a bit lengthy.

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Author: Is second-order unification supported primarily as a way to get around issues like this?

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Reviewer 2: I'm not completely sure what counts as second-order unification, whether the first example is already considered as such or only the second example where the unification has created the `fun ...` term that it instantiated `P` with. Second-order unification is just about making the call to `apply nat_ind` succeed. But it is also not very smart as highlighted in these two examples where the default instantiation is not the expected one. I don't have an example where `apply nat_ind` would choose the expected instantiation (again, these are somehow artificial examples since usually users should use `induction` which is smarter).

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Author: "The goal case uses first-order unification with dependent types unless ..." pretty clearly suggests that the special case is not first-order unification.  I mention second-order unification in the example I added, if you think we should avoid the term, I can remove that after you look at it.

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Reviewer 2: We can consider this to be a case of second-order unification indeed. According to https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Unification_(computer_science), unification is higher order as soon as some variables are matched to functions. The only drawback of not putting the second example is that it doesn't highlight that variables can be unified to a new `fun ...` pattern created on the spot.

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Author: Hmm, even looking closely at the successful `apply` tactics and `Show Proof` steps in both examples, I don't quite see what you mean by "variables can be unified to a new `fun ...` pattern created on the spot", so it may be hard to explain the difference between the two examples.  I'll just use the first example.

>         Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Reviewer 2: This is what happens in my second example before the use of `pattern`: `(fun _ : nat => x + y = y + x /\ True)` did not exist before in the goal. But fine to skip this.

     the behavior depends on the form of the target. If the target is of the form
     :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q) u__1 … u__n` and the :n:`t__i` and :n:`u__i` unify,
     then :g:`P` is instantiated into :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q)`. Otherwise,
     :tacn:`apply`
     tries to define :g:`P` by abstracting over :n:`t__1 … t__n` in the target.
     You can use :tacn:`pattern` to transform the target so that it
     gets the form :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q) u__1 … u__n`.

   :n:`@in_hyp_as` (the hypothesis case)
     Proceeding from *right to left*, find the first premise of the type of
     :n:`@one_term` that matches the specified hypothesis.  If a match
     is found, the hypothesis is replaced with the conclusion of the type of
     :n:`one_term` (substituting for the unified variables)
     and the tactic creates a new subgoal for each unmatched premise.
     See the example :ref:`here <apply_forward>`.

     If specified, :n:`as @simple_intropattern` is applied to the conclusion
     of the type of :n:`@one_term`.

     .. todo PR the following old text was under apply ... in <hyp>,
        but the "match the goal" suggests it's for the goal case of apply.

>         Which is it?  Also, can one of you help me create an example?

Reviewer 2: Indeed, this text is wrong (was probably copy-pasted when introduced [14 years ago](70af80aad166bc54e4bbc80dfc9427cfee32aae6), improperly adapted and never fixed!). According to the example that the doc already contains, it should say something like "If the type of one_term is an inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type, then the tuple is (recursively) decomposed and the first component of the tuple of which a non-dependent premise matches the conclusion of the hypothesis is used."

Here is the example already contained in the text transformed into actual Coq code:

```coq
Parameters A B C : Prop.

Goal (A <-> B) -> A -> False.
intros H1 H2.
apply H1 in H2.
```

Author: OK, but I don't understand how "isomorphic to a tuple type" fits in here.

Reviewer 2: Tuple is a generalization of couple to any size: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tuple

An inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type means any inductive type with a single constructor of the form:

```coq
Inductive type_name :=
| constructor_name : first_arg_type -> second_arg_type -> ... -> last_arg_type -> type_name.
```

So yes, that also matches the (non-primitive) definition of records.

These are the inductive types on which the `split` tactic will succeed, by transforming a goal which matches `type_name` into one goal per tuple component (arguments of `constructor_name`).

`A <-> B` is defined as `(A -> B) /\ (B -> A)` and `/\` is an example of "inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type".

FWIW, I don't mind replacing the mouthful "inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type" by something else, but in this case we should replace it consistently everywhere.

Author: I know what a tuple is in math and OCaml, but not in Coq.    We don't even define "tuple" explicitly in the doc.  (FTR, I hadn't seen "couple" to mean a 2-tuple before.)

> An inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type means any inductive type with a single constructor of the form:

Then probably it would be more readable just to give that form.  The isomorphic tuple type is `(first_arg_type second_arg_type ... last_arg_type)`?  I don't even know the proper notation for a tuple type.

> So yes, that also matches the (non-primitive) definition of records.

AFAICT, fields in records have to have names.  Where are the names?

Author: > FWIW, I don't mind replacing the mouthful "inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type" by something else, but in this case we should replace it consistently everywhere.

Searching for "isomorphic", I only see 3 uses of the phrase.  Not sure what would be a good replacement.  I also see "If an inductive type is isomorphic to the boolean type".  It seems too vague for the doc to just say there is a one-one mapping without specifying that mapping and exactly what is preserved when you apply the mapping.  (Without knowing what's preserved, all you know is that the cardinality of the two domains is the same.)

Reviewer 2: > (FTR, I hadn't seen "couple" to mean a 2-tuple before.)

That may be a Frenchism then. Probably the correct English wording is ordered pair.

>Then probably it would be more readable just to give that form.

Sounds good to me. This "isomorphic" wording is just a way of carrying an intuitive meaning, but saying "inductive type of the form..." is clearer.

>AFAICT, fields in records have to have names. Where are the names?

Indeed, so better not to talk about records (names are optional in the current context).

> It seems too vague for the doc to just say there is a one-one mapping without specifying that mapping and exactly what is preserved when you apply the mapping.

My understanding is that isomorphic in this context means same definition up to renaming the types and fields.

Author: This is not yet making much (any?) sense.

> An inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type means any inductive type with a single constructor of the form:

These are correct, right?:
- A tuple _is_ a record?
- Record fields are ordered?
- Field names are not relevant to determining isomorphism, right?

What does "decompose" mean below?  Is just a depth-first search for the first match?? Can you give example(s) of decomposing?  The recursion is to handle the case where the type of a record field has a record type?

> If the type of :n:`@one_term` is an inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type,
then the tuple is (recursively) decomposed and _the first component of the
tuple for which a premise matches the conclusion of the
hypothesis is used._  :ref:`Example <example_apply_hyp_inductive>`

The italic part doesn't make any sense; "for which a premise" is a premise of the hypothesis??  And exactly how is the tuple "used"?

For your example (below), what is the tuple type and where is it defined?

```coq
Parameters A B C : Prop.

Goal (A <-> B) -> A -> False.
intros H1 H2.
apply H1 in H2.
```

Reviewer 4: `A <-> B` is actually `(A -> B) /\ (B -> A)`, which is isomorphic to a pair type. Regarding "for which a premise", it is about the component of the tuple, so the documentation seems correct. Here, the premise `A` of the component `A -> B` of the tuple `A <-> B` is matched against the hypothesis `H2: A`. In other words, `apply H1 in H2` behaves like `apply (proj1 H1) in H2`, since the first component matched.

I had no idea the search was actually recursive. A quick test shows that it is indeed the case. And it is indeed depth-first. But the documentation is wrong about "the first component" being used. It seems to be the last one, i.e., the rightmost one.

Author: I wonder whether the recursive search is really useful or just a curio.  If it is, we should get an example for that.

Reviewer 4: `A /\ B /\ C` (resp. `A * B * C`), since it is implicitly `A /\ (B /\ C)` (resp. `(A * B) * C`). The mechanism would be painful to use if it was not right-recursive (resp. left-recursive). And once it is both left- and right-recursive, it might just as well be fully recursive.

Author: > But the documentation is wrong about "the first component" being used. It seems to be the last one, i.e., the rightmost one.

I think not.  For the following, it uses the leftmost one.  What is your example?

```coq
Goal forall (iff: ((2 = 2) <-> (1=1)) <-> ((1 = 1) <-> 3 = 3))
   (H: 1 = 1), 1 = 1.
intros iff H.
(*
1 subgoal
iff : (2 = 2 <-> 1 = 1) <-> (1 = 1 <-> 3 = 3)
H : 1 = 1
______________________________________(1/1)
1 = 1
*)

apply iff.
(*
2 subgoals
iff : (2 = 2 <-> 1 = 1) <-> (1 = 1 <-> 3 = 3)
H : 1 = 1
______________________________________(1/2)
1 = 1 <-> 3 = 3
______________________________________(2/2)
2 = 2
*)
```

Author: This is a curious but harmless oddity.  Not sure if it's seen in practice.  The second and third goals are identical--we don't need both:

```coq
Goal forall A B C D: Prop, (A -> B) -> (A -> B -> C) -> True.
intros A B C D H0 H1.
apply H1 in H0.
(*
3 subgoals
A, B, C, D : Prop
H0 : C
H1 : A -> B -> C
______________________________________(1/3)
True
______________________________________(2/3)
A
______________________________________(3/3)
A
*)
```

While this works a bit differently.  I think `((A -> B) -> C) -> (A -> (B -> C))` is probably not true:

```coq
Goal forall A B C D: Prop, (A -> B) -> ((A -> B) -> C) -> True.
intros A B C D H0 H1.
apply H1 in H0.
(*
1 subgoal
A, B, C, D : Prop
H0 : A -> B
H1 : (A -> B) -> C
______________________________________(1/1)
True
*)
```

Reviewer 4: > I think not. For the following, it uses the leftmost one.

No, it uses the rightmost one. You can double-check that the goal you get is the same as the one you would get with `apply (proj2 iff)`, and different from the one you would get with `apply (proj1 iff)`.

Consider the following much simpler example, in which you are left with `B`:
```coq
Goal forall A B Z : Prop, (A -> Z) /\ (B -> Z) -> Z.
Proof. intros. apply H.
```

Author: Got it, thanks.  Like many things in Coq, you often have to visualize several substeps correctly to make sense of things.

     If the conclusion
     of the type of :token:`one_term` does not match the goal *and* the conclusion
     is an inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type, then
     the tuple is (recursively) decomposed and the first component of the tuple
     of which a non-dependent premise matches the conclusion of the type of
     :token:`ident`. Tuples are decomposed in a width-first left-to-right order
     (for instance if the type of :g:`H1` is :g:`A <-> B` and the type of
     :g:`H2` is :g:`A` then :g:`apply H1 in H2` transforms the type of :g:`H2`
     into :g:`B`). The tactic :tacn:`apply` relies on first-order pattern matching
     with dependent types.

   :n:`with @bindings`
     Gives explicit instantiations for variables used in the type of :n:`@one_term`.
     There are 3 cases:

     - Bindings for variables can be provided in a list of :n:`@one_term`\s
       in the left-to-right order of their first appearance in the type of
       :n:`@one_term`.  For the goal case (:ref:`example <apply_with_binding_goal>`),
       the list should give bindings only for variables that aren't bound by

>        unification.  However, in the hypothesis case,
>        (:ref:`example <apply_with_binding_hyp>`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       unification.  However, in the hypothesis case
       (:ref:`example <apply_with_binding_hyp>`),
```

       the list must include bindings for *all* variables.

     - Bindings for unbound variables can be given by name with the
       :n:`(@ident := @term)` form.

     - The form :n:`(@natural := @term)` binds additional variables by

>        unifying the Nth premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` with :n:`@term`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
       unifying the Nth non-dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` with :n:`@term`.
```

       (Use `1` for the first premise.)

   .. exn:: Unable to unify @one_term with @one_term.

      The :tacn:`apply` tactic failed to match the conclusion of :token:`one_term`.
      You can help :tacn:`apply` by
      transforming your goal with the :tacn:`change` or :tacn:`pattern`
      tactics.

>    .. exn:: Statement without assumptions.

Reviewer 2: This error message does not exist anymore.

      This happens if the type of :token:`term` has no non-dependent premise.

>    .. exn:: Unable to apply.

Reviewer 2: This error message is actually of the form:
```
Unable to apply lemma of type "..." on hypothesis of type "...".
```

      This happens if the conclusion of :token:`ident` does not match any of
      the non-dependent premises of the type of :token:`term`.

   .. exn:: Unable to find an instance for the variables {+ @ident}.

      This occurs when some instantiations of the premises of :token:`one_term` are not deducible
      from the unification. This is the case, for instance, when you want to apply a

>       transitivity property.

Reviewer 2: We should add the advice to use the `with @bindings` clause or the `eapply` tactic in this case.

   .. exn:: Not the right number of missing arguments.

>       :undocumented:

Reviewer 2: The actual error message is:

```
Not the right number of missing arguments (expected @natural).
```

And its documentation can say that this error is raised when using the first form of `@bindings` but with not the expected number of arguments.

Author: The message appears twice in this file.  I changed the first and removed the second.

   .. todo PR: we should be listing things like "Debug tactic-unification" in

>       in the options index.  Maybe we should add ":debug:" as a new tag.  WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Sure, that would be probably a good idea. But maybe not in this PR :wink:

   .. example:: Backward reasoning in the goal with `apply`

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Goal forall A B C: Prop, (A -> B -> C) -> C.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros A B C H.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply H.  (* replace goal with new goals for unmatched premises of H *)

   .. _apply_forward:
   .. example:: Forward reasoning in hypotheses with `apply`

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Goal forall A B C: Prop, B -> (A -> B -> C) -> True.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros A B C H0 H1.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply H1 in H0.  (* change H0, create new goals for unmatched premises of H1 *)

   .. _apply_with_binding_goal:
   .. example:: Apply a theorem with a binding in a goal

      :tacn:`apply` unifies the conclusion `n <= p` of the theorem
      `le_trans : forall n m p, n <= m -> m <= p -> n <= p`
      with the goal, assigning `x * x ^ n` and `y * y ^ n` in the goal
      to, repectively, `n` and `p` in theorem (backward reasoning).
      The `with` clause provides the binding for `m`:

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Require Import PeanoNat.
         Require Import Nat.
         Infix "^" := pow : nat_scope.

>          Goal forall (x y n : nat), x * x ^ n <= y * y ^ n.

Reviewer 2: I think that the `^ n` part complicates the example for no gain, I would remove it to keep only the multiplicative part. Also, I suggest adding `x <= y` in the hypothesis to make the goal credible.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros x y n.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply Nat.le_trans with (y * x ^ n).

   .. _apply_with_binding_hyp:
   .. example:: Apply a theorem with a binding in a hypothesis

      When applying a theorem in a hypothesis,
      :tacn:`apply` unifies the hypothesis with one of the premises

>       of the theorem.  In this case, it unifies with the first premise

Reviewer 2: I would repeat the statement of `Nat.le_trans` to make the example more self-contained.

      (`n <= m`) and assigns `x * x ^ n` and `y * y ^ n` to,

>       respectively, `n`` and `m` in the theorem (forward reasoning).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      respectively, `n` and `m` in the theorem (forward reasoning).
```

      The  `with` clause provides the binding for `p`.

      In addition,
      `apply` in a hypothesis isn't as flexible as
      `apply` in the goal: for hypotheses, the unbound variable can be bound
      by name (as shown) or values for all the variables can be given
      positionally,
      i.e. `apply Nat.le_trans with (x * x ^ n) (y * y ^ n) (y * x ^ n) in H.`

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Require Import PeanoNat.
         Require Import Nat.
         Infix "^" := pow : nat_scope.
         Goal forall (x y n : nat) (H: x * x ^ n <= y * y ^ n), True.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros x y n H.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply Nat.le_trans with (p := y * x ^ n) in H.

   .. _apply_with_iff:
   .. example:: Applying theorems with `<->`

      Theorems that use `<->` to state a logical equivalence behave
      consistently when applied to goals and hypotheses; the tactic
      picks the useful alternative.  The lemma

>       is `iff: 1 = 1 <-> 2 = 2`:

Reviewer 2: What about adding this "lemma" to the context instead of having to present it with text?

      when Coq is unable to deduce instantiations for variables, rather than failing.

   .. tacn:: rapply @one_term

      Behaves like :tacn:`eapply` but
      uses the proof engine of :tacn:`refine` to handle
      existential variables, holes and conversion problems.  This may
      result in slightly different behavior regarding which conversion
      problems are solvable.  However, like :tacn:`apply` but unlike
      :tacn:`eapply`, :tacn:`rapply` fails if any holes remain
      in :n:`@one_term` itself after typechecking and
      typeclass resolution but before unification with the goal.  More
      technically, :n:`@one_term` is first interpeted as a
      :production:`constr` rather than as a :production:`uconstr` or
      :production:`open_constr` before being applied to the goal. Note
      that :tacn:`rapply` tries to instantiate as many hypotheses of
      :n:`@one_term` as possible.  As a result, if it is possible to apply
      :n:`@one_term` to arbitrarily many arguments without getting a type
      error, :tacn:`rapply` will loop.

      .. todo PR: reword sentence above to remove :production:, don't understand

>          that sentence

Reviewer 2: Basically, it says that the `@one_term` is fully typechecked and cannot contain leftover holes before the tactic tries to match it with the goal, whereas `eapply` would be OK with that (it accepts "open terms", see https://coq.inria.fr/refman/user-extensions/syntax-extensions.html#tactic-notations and https://coq.inria.fr/refman/proof-engine/ltac2.html#built-in-quotations for place where the notions of `uconstr` and `open_constr` are mentioned).

However, it is false when it says "like apply but unlike apply". `rapply` is actually unlike both `appply` and `eapply` for this aspect (both accept holes in the `one_term` argument if they can match them infer them from the conclusion of the goal).

Author: Maybe I should just drop the "More technically ..." sentence here.  The sentence before it seems clear.  If kept, it deserves added hyperlinks.

`open_constr` is not listed in `Tactic Notation`, I can add it.  Also, perhaps that section should better explain the difference between it `constr` and `uconstr` (which is ??).

What's the definition of "open term"?  Does it mean that wildcards are allowed, or something else?

Reviewer 2: If I'm not mistaken (to check, possibly by asking for other reviewers in a separate PR):
- `constr` means fully elaborated term (it has no holes and it has a type)
- `open_constr` means not-fully elaborated term (it can have holes represented by wildcards or, more generally, existential variables)
- `uconstr` means untyped term, so the tactic or tactic notation would accept its argument without running type checking at all, and could type check it in a latter phase in an extended context, or not check it before `Qed`.

Author: WDYT about my question above?

> Maybe I should just drop the "More technically ..." sentence here. The sentence before it seems clear. If kept, it deserves added hyperlinks.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I'd personally be fine with dropping this.

      Note that you need to :n:`Require Import Coq.Program.Tactics` to
      make use of :tacn:`rapply`.

   .. tacn:: simple apply {+, {? > } @one_term {? with @bindings } } {? @in_hyp_as }

      Behaves like :tacn:`apply` but it reasons modulo conversion only on subterms
      that contain no variables to instantiate and does not traverse tuples.
      For instance, the following example fails because it would require converting
      ``id ?foo`` and :g:`O`.

      .. _simple_apply_ex:
      .. example::

         .. coqtop:: reset all

            Definition id (x : nat) := x.
            Parameter H : forall x y, id x = y.
            Goal O = O.
            Fail simple apply H.

      Because it reasons modulo a limited amount of conversion, :tacn:`simple apply` fails
      faster than :tacn:`apply` and it is thus well-suited for use in user-defined
      tactics that backtrack often. Moreover, it does not traverse tuples as :tacn:`apply`

>       does.

Reviewer 2: This "Moreoever" part is just repeating what was already said above.

   Unification creates a map from the variables in the type of :n:`@one_term`
   to matching subterms of the goal or hypothesis.
   The matching subterms are then substituted into the type of :n:`@one_term`
   when generating the updated goal or hypothesis.  Unmatched premises become
   new subgoals with similar substitutions.  If no match is found, the
   tactic fails.

   The goal and hypothesis cases are described separately for clarity.

   :n:`@one_term` (inside :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
     If :n:`@one_term` is an :n:`@ident`, it is the name of
     a theorem, lemma or hypothesis whose type is given in the
     theorem statement or shown in the context.  Otherwise it is a proof term whose
     type can be displayed with :cmd:`Check` :n:`@one_term`.

   Without :n:`@in_hyp_as` (the goal case)
     If the goal matches all of the type of :n:`@one_term` (both premises and
     the conclusion), the tactic proves the goal.
     Otherwise, the tactic matches the goal against the conclusion of :n:`@one_term`
     and, if necessary, one or more premises (from right to left).
     If the match succeeds, the tactic replaces the current goal with a subgoal for

>      each non-dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term`.  This

Author: I think "unmatched" is even clearer.

        component of the tuple matches the goal, it excludes components whose
        statement would result in applying an universal lemma of the form
        ``forall A, … -> A``.

     The goal case uses first-order unification with dependent types unless the
     conclusion of the type of :token:`term` is of the form
     :n:`P (t__1 … t__n)` with ``P`` to be instantiated. In the latter case,
     the behavior depends on the form of the target. If the target is of the form
     :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q) u__1 … u__n` and the :n:`t__i` and :n:`u__i` unify,
     then :g:`P` is instantiated into :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q)`. Otherwise,
     :tacn:`apply`
     tries to define :g:`P` by abstracting over :n:`t__1 … t__n` in the target.
     You can use :tacn:`pattern` to transform the target so that it
     gets the form :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q) u__1 … u__n`.  See the example
     :ref:`here <example_apply_pattern>`.

   :n:`@in_hyp_as` (the hypothesis case)
     Proceeding from *right to left*, find the first premise of the type of
     :n:`@one_term` that matches the specified hypothesis.  If a match
     is found, the hypothesis is replaced with the conclusion of the type of

>      :n:`one_term` (substituting for the unified variables)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     :n:`@one_term` (substituting for the unified variables)
```

     and the tactic creates a new subgoal for each unmatched premise.
     See the example :ref:`here <apply_forward>`.

     If specified, :n:`as @simple_intropattern` is applied to the conclusion

>      of the type of :n:`@one_term`.

Reviewer 2: Maybe add:
```suggestion
     of the type of :n:`@one_term` (in this case, the selected hypothesis
     may be left unchanged if its name is not reused).
```

Author: "may be left unchanged" or "is left unchanged"?

Reviewer 2: "is left unchanged"

     If the type of :n:`@one_term` is an inductive type isomorphic to a tuple type,
     then the tuple is (recursively) decomposed and the first component of the

>      tuple for which a non-dependent premise matches the conclusion of the

Reviewer 2: "non-dependent" can probably be removed here (again because premise has been defined in the context of this tactic to mean the non-dependent case).
```suggestion
     tuple for which a premise matches the conclusion of the
```

     hypothesis is used.  :ref:`Example <example_apply_hyp_inductive>`

     For the hypothesis case, matching is done only with first-order unification.

>    :n:`with @bindings` (in :n:`one_term_with_bindings`)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   :n:`with @bindings` (in :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
```

       :n:`(@ident := @term)` form.

     - The form :n:`(@natural := @term)` binds additional variables by
       unifying the Nth non-dependent premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` with :n:`@term`.
       (Use `1` for the first premise.)

   .. exn:: Unable to unify @one_term with @one_term.

      The :tacn:`apply` tactic failed to match the conclusion of :token:`one_term`.
      You can help :tacn:`apply` by
      transforming your goal with the :tacn:`change` or :tacn:`pattern`
      tactics.

   .. exn:: Unable to apply lemma of type "..." on hypothesis of type "...".

      This happens if the conclusion of :token:`ident` does not match any of
      the non-dependent premises of the type of :token:`term`.

   .. exn:: Unable to find an instance for the variables {+ @ident}.

      This occurs when some instantiations of the premises of :token:`one_term` are not deducible
      from the unification. This is the case, for instance, when you want to apply a
      transitivity property.  To fix this, add bindings for the :n:`@ident`\s using
      to :n:`with @bindings` or use :tacn:`eapply`.

   .. todo: we should be listing things like "Debug tactic-unification" in

>       in the options index.  Maybe we should add ":debug:" as a new tag.  WDYT?

Reviewer 2: Is this supposed to be a `todo PR`? If not, then maybe remove the WDYT. (I think I already gave my opinion that this was a good idea but probably not in scope for this PR.)

   .. example:: Apply a theorem with a binding in a goal

      :tacn:`apply` unifies the conclusion `n <= p` of the theorem
      `le_trans : forall n m p, n <= m -> m <= p -> n <= p`
      with the goal, assigning `x * x` and `y * y` in the goal
      to, repectively, `n` and `p` in theorem (backward reasoning).
      The `with` clause provides the binding for `m`:

      .. coqtop:: reset in

         Require Import PeanoNat.

      .. coqtop:: none

         Goal forall (x y : nat), x <= y -> x * x <= y * y.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros x y H0.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply Nat.le_trans with (y * x).

   .. _apply_with_binding_hyp:
   .. example:: Apply a theorem with a binding in a hypothesis

      When applying a theorem in a hypothesis,
      :tacn:`apply` unifies the hypothesis with one of the premises
      of the theorem `le_trans : forall n m p, n <= m -> m <= p -> n <= p`.
      In this case, it unifies with the first premise
      (`n <= m`) and assigns `x * x` and `y * y` to,
      respectively, `n` and `m` in the theorem (forward reasoning).
      The  `with` clause provides the binding for `p`.

      In addition,

>       `apply` in a hypothesis isn't as flexible as
>       `apply` in the goal: for hypotheses, the unbound variable can be bound

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      :tacn:`apply` in a hypothesis isn't as flexible as
      :tacn:`apply` in the goal: for hypotheses, the unbound variable can be bound
```

      i.e. `apply Nat.le_trans with (x * x) (y * y) (y * x) in H.`

      .. coqtop:: reset in

         Require Import PeanoNat.

      .. coqtop:: none

         Goal forall (x y : nat), x * x <= y * y -> x <= y.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros x y H.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply Nat.le_trans with (p := y * x) in H.

   .. _apply_with_iff:
   .. example:: Applying theorems with `<->`

      Theorems that use `<->` to state a logical equivalence behave
      consistently when applied to goals and hypotheses; the tactic
      picks the useful alternative.

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Lemma iff: 1 = 1 <-> 2 = 2.  Admitted.
         Goal forall (H: 1 = 1), 1 = 1.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros H.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply iff.
         apply iff in H.

   .. _example_apply_hyp_inductive:
   .. example:: apply an inductive type in a hypothesis

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Goal forall A B C: Prop, (A <-> B) -> A -> False.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros A B C H1 H2.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply H1 in H2.

   .. _example_apply_pattern:
   .. example:: Using :tacn:`pattern` to control unification in apply

>       After the ``pattern``, the ``apply`` uses second-order unification.

Reviewer 2: Depending on how exactly we define second-order unification, we could also consider that this is already second-order unification before the call to pattern (since we unify to what is, semantically, a function). Or we could consider that even after the pattern, this is not second-order unification (maybe the first-order unification algorithm as implemented suffices in this case and the second-order unification mechanism is only used when it needs to create a `fun`). If we want to know, we need to ask unification experts such as @herbelin.

Author: How's this?  It's definitely a second order match but I think this is clear that it's not a general purpose second-order algorithm.  IIUC it's undecidable.

      After the ``pattern``, the ``apply`` uses the special case second-order
      unification described :ref:`here <apply_with_second_order_unification>`
      (after "unless").

     If the match succeeds, the tactic replaces the current goal with a subgoal for
     each unmatched premise of the type of :n:`@one_term`.  This
     :ref:`example <apply_backward>` matches only the conclusion, while
     this :ref:`one <apply_backward_w_premises>` also matches a premise.

     If the conclusion of the type of :token:`one_term` does not match the goal
     *and* the conclusion is an inductive type with a single constructor,
     then each premise in the constructor is recursively matched to the goal in
     right-to-left order and the first match is used.  In this case, the tactic
     will not match premises that would result in applying a lemma of the form
     ``forall A, … -> A``.  See example :ref:`here <apply_with_iff>`.

.. _apply_with_second_order_unification:

     The goal case uses first-order unification with dependent types unless the
     conclusion of the type of :token:`term` is of the form
     :n:`P t__1 … t__n` with :n:`P` to be instantiated. In the latter case,
     the behavior depends on the form of the target. If the target is of the form
     :n:`Q u__1 … u__n` and the :n:`t__i` and :n:`u__i` unify,

>      then :n:`P` is instantiated into :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q)`. Otherwise,

Reviewer 2: Sorry, I had missed this:
```suggestion
     then :n:`P` is instantiated into :n:`Q`. Otherwise,
```

(in this case, `Q` is already a function, so it doesn't have to be abstracted over)

   .. the dummy ref name is needed to get correct formatting of the next line and "Without..."

   :n:`@one_term` (inside :n:`@one_term_with_bindings`)
     If :n:`@one_term` is an :n:`@ident`, it is the name of
     a theorem, lemma or hypothesis whose type is given in the
     theorem statement or shown in the context.  Otherwise it is a proof term whose
     type can be displayed with :cmd:`Check` :n:`@one_term`.

   Without :n:`@in_hyp_as` (the goal case)
     If the goal matches all of the type of :n:`@one_term` (both premises and
     the conclusion), the tactic proves the goal.
     Otherwise, the tactic matches the goal against the conclusion of :n:`@one_term`
     and, if possible, one or more premises (from right to left).
     If the match succeeds, the tactic replaces the current goal with a subgoal for
     each unmatched premise of the type of :n:`@one_term`.  This
     :ref:`example <apply_backward>` matches only the conclusion, while
     this :ref:`one <apply_backward_w_premises>` also matches a premise.

     If the conclusion of the type of :token:`one_term` does not match the goal
     *and* the conclusion is an inductive type with a single constructor,

>      then each premise in the constructor is recursively matched to the goal in

Reviewer 2: The constructor has a type which has premises, but the constructor itself does not have premises, it has arguments (when it is applied). So maybe this should be:
```suggestion
     then each premise in the constructor's type is recursively matched to the goal in
```

Though, even after this change, I'm still a bit uncertain that this is the right wording, because the premises of the constructor's type are somewhat abstract and independent of the context in which the inductive type was used. But I don't have any suggestion to improve this further, and I'm otherwise relatively convinced that your removal of the undefined "isomorphic to a tuple type" concept is a good idea.

Author: How about "argument" instead of "premise"?  IIUC `Inductive` shows the types, so should be quite clear.

Reviewer 2: Yes, I pondered whether to recommend using "argument" instead of "premise". However, it's not an argument of the constructor but an argument of the inductive type itself that is recursively matched to the goal (the constructor will be eventually found in the proof term, applied to subgoals' proof terms, not to subgoals themselves).

I also was a bit worried by the case of the `eq` type, which is an inductive type with a single constructor, but not isomorphic to a tuple type (its constructor does not take any argument), but it's probably OK to ignore this edge case...

Reviewer 4: No, it is the type of the arguments of the sole constructor.

Reviewer 2: Thanks. But then "type of the arguments of the sole constructor" is pretty much what "premise in the constructor's type" meant, or is there any difference?

Reviewer 4: I guess it is the same.

Reviewer 2: So @jfehrle, let's leave things as they are (unless someone comes up with a simpler wording, which would be greatly appreciated).

     left-to-right order and the first match is used.  In this case, the tactic
     will not match premises that would result in applying a lemma of the form
     ``forall A, … -> A``.  See example :ref:`here <apply_with_iff>`.

.. _apply_with_second_order_unification:

     The goal case uses first-order unification with dependent types unless the
     conclusion of the type of :token:`term` is of the form

>      :n:`P (t__1 … t__n)` with ``P`` to be instantiated. In the latter case,

Reviewer 2: I had missed this so far, but the point here is to show that there are (possibly) several arguments, so the parentheses should not be there.

```suggestion
     :n:`P t__1 … t__n` with :n:`P` to be instantiated. In the latter case,
```

>      the behavior depends on the form of the target. If the target is of the form
>      :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q) u__1 … u__n` and the :n:`t__i` and :n:`u__i` unify,
>      then :g:`P` is instantiated into :n:`(fun x__1 … x__n => Q)`. Otherwise,

Reviewer 2: After reading this again and comparing it to the behavior I observed, I'm convinced that the meaning of this description is not that the target has this form syntactically, but only semantically (a function applied to arguments). So to make this clear, we should not use the `fun` syntactic construct in this part of the description (only later when we talk of using `pattern`).
```suggestion
     the behavior depends on the form of the target. If the target is of the form
     :n:`Q u__1 … u__n` and the :n:`t__i` and :n:`u__i` unify,
     then :n:`P` is instantiated into :n:`Q`. Otherwise,
```

     :tacn:`apply`

>      tries to define :g:`P` by abstracting over :n:`t__1 … t__n` in the target.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     tries to define :n:`P` by abstracting over :n:`t__1 … t__n` in the target.
```

     - Bindings for variables can be provided in a list of :n:`@one_term`\s
       in the left-to-right order of their first appearance in the type of
       :n:`@one_term`.  For the goal case (:ref:`example <apply_with_binding_goal>`),
       the list should give bindings only for variables that aren't bound by
       unification.  However, in the hypothesis case
       (:ref:`example <apply_with_binding_hyp>`),
       the list must include bindings for *all* variables.

     - Bindings for unbound variables can be given by name with the
       :n:`(@ident := @term)` form.

     - The form :n:`(@natural := @term)` binds additional variables by
       unifying the Nth premise of the type of :n:`@one_term` with :n:`@term`.
       (Use `1` for the first premise.)

   .. exn:: Unable to unify @one_term with @one_term.

      The :tacn:`apply` tactic failed to match the conclusion of :token:`one_term`.
      You can help :tacn:`apply` by
      transforming your goal with the :tacn:`change` or :tacn:`pattern`
      tactics.

   .. exn:: Unable to apply lemma of type "..." on hypothesis of type "...".

      This happens if the conclusion of :token:`ident` does not match any of

>       the premises of the type of :token:`term`.

Reviewer 2: This should probably be:
```suggestion
      the premises of the type of :token:`one_term`.
```

Maybe also clarify that this is "the hypothesis case".

Author: I think the wording of the message `on hypothesis of type "..."` makes it clear that it's the hypothesis case.  Eh?

         intros x y H.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply Nat.le_trans with (p := y * x) in H.

   .. _apply_with_iff:
   .. example:: Applying theorems with `<->`

      .. Note: :n:`/\` and :n:`/\\` don't give the desired output.  A bug.

      :n:`A <-> B` is defined as :n:`(A -> B) /\ (B -> A)`.
      `/\\` represents an inductive type with a single constructor:
      :n:`Inductive and (C D:Prop) : Prop := conj : C -> D -> D /\ C`.  The premises
      of :n:`conj` are :n:`C` and :n:`D`.  The tactic tries the constructor premises
      in left-to-right order and uses the first match.

      Theorems that use :n:`<->` to state a logical equivalence behave consistently
      when applied to goals and hypotheses.

      .. coqtop:: reset none

         Goal forall (H1: 1 = 1 <-> 2 = 2) (H: 1 = 1), 1 = 1.

      .. coqtop:: out

         intros H1 H.

      .. coqtop:: all

         apply H1.
         apply H1 in H.

   .. _example_apply_pattern:
   .. example:: Using :tacn:`pattern` to control unification in apply

      After the ``pattern``, the ``apply`` uses the special case second-order
      unification described :ref:`here <apply_with_second_order_unification>`

>       (after "unless").

Reviewer 2: Consistently with my remarks above, I'm convinced that the "After the `pattern`" part should be removed. You can just say that this example illustrates the unification behavior described in the referenced paragraph.

Author: Good now?

   type isomorphic to a tuple type and ``apply`` looks recursively whether a
   component of the tuple matches the goal, it excludes components whose
   statement would result in applying an universal lemma of the form
   ``forall A, … -> A``. Excluding this kind of lemma can be avoided by

>    setting the following flag:

Reviewer 2: This sentence referred to the `Universal Lemma Under Conjunction` flag which was removed. So this sentence should be removed as well. And the rest of this note should be moved inside the documentation of `apply` next to where it talks about inductive types isomorphic to a tuple.

   type isomorphic to a tuple type and ``apply`` looks recursively whether a
   component of the tuple matches the goal, it excludes components whose
   statement would result in applying an universal lemma of the form
   ``forall A, … -> A``. Excluding this kind of lemma can be avoided by
   setting the following flag:

> .. flag:: Universal Lemma Under Conjunction

Reviewer 2: We could also remove this flag (deprecated since 8.15) now.

      apply Rmp.

.. _managingthelocalcontext:

Managing the local context
------------------------------

.. tacn:: intro {? @ident } {? @where }

   Applies the :tacn:`hnf` tactic until it finds an item that can be
   introduced in the context by removing certain constructs in the goal.
   If no item is found, the tactic fails.  The constructs have these forms:
   (See examples :ref:`here <intro_examples>`.)

   `forall x : T, …`
     `x` is a :term:`dependent premise`.  Removes `forall x`
     from the goal and adds `x : T` to the context.

   `A -> B`
     `A` is a :term:`non-dependent premise`.  Removes `A ->` from
     the goal and adds `H : A` to the context.  If `H` already exists, Coq uses

>      a fresh name.

Reviewer 2: This is the only mention that Coq generates a fresh name in case the one it wanted to use already exists in the context, but this is actually true in all three cases.

   `let x := c, …`
     Removes `let x := c,` from the goal and adds `x := c : T`
     to the context.

   .. todo PR
     Need an example of an existential variable

   We recommend always specifying :n:`@ident` so that the names of hypotheses don't
   change as the proof is updated, making your proof easier to maintain.  For example,
   if H exists in the context, Coq will consider using `H0`, `H1`, ... until it finds an
   unused name.  Modifications to a proof can change automatically assigned names

>    that subsequent tactics likely refer to, making the proofs harder to maintain.

Reviewer 2: This is a good recommendation, but there is no earlier mention that if provided, the `ident` will be used instead of an automatically generated name. We should add one.

Also, we could refer to the mangling name feature from here.

   Note that :tacn:`intros` lets you introduce multiple items into
   the context with a single tactic.

   :n:`@ident`
     The name to give to the introduced hypothesis.  If not given, Coq uses the
     variable name for dependent premises or `H` for non-dependent premises.
     If a name such as `H` is already in use, Coq will consider using `H0`,
     `H1`, ... until it finds a fresh name.

     .. note::

        If a hypothesis name hides the base name of a global constant then
        the latter can still be referred to by a qualified name
        (see :ref:`Qualified-names`).

   :n:`@where`
     Indicates where to place the introduced hypothesis: at the top or bottom
     of the context or before or after another specified hypothesis.  The default
     is `at bottom`.

>    .. exn:: @ident is already used.

Reviewer 2: Might be obvious, but it is raised when the provided ident is already used in the context.

      :undocumented:

>    .. exn:: No such hypothesis: @ident.

Reviewer 2: Only raised when using the `@where` clause and referring to a non-existing hypothesis. Note that variants of the "No such hypothesis" error message appear 7 times in this chapter, but this is the only place where the error message is correctly specified. 

I also wonder if we shouldn't reduce the number of places where this message appears. E.g., mention it only once in the occurrence clauses section, and refer to it at the beginning of the "managing the local context" section (since a lot of tactics from this section can raise it).

Author: IMHO it doesn't need any explanation at all.  The message is always for a hypothesis name explicitly given in the tactic.  Saying it's only for the `@where` clause is hardly necessary.  Associating messages with specific tactics/commands doesn't make much sense when the message applies to multiple or disparate commands.  And we do have an index for errors.

I'll move it to occurrences if you like.

Looks like `No such hypothesis in current goal.` doesn't exist.  Also `No such hypothesis.` should be `No such hypothesis: @ident.`

Reviewer 2: > Saying it's only for the `@where` clause is hardly necessary.

Actually, I wasn't suggesting to say that in the doc.

> Looks like `No such hypothesis in current goal.` doesn't exist. Also `No such hypothesis.` should be `No such hypothesis: @ident.`

Yes, that was one of my points.

>I'll move it to occurrences if you like.

There or elsewhere, but the documentation of `intro` is probably one of the worst place to mention it only once.

      :undocumented:

>    .. exn:: No product even after head-reduction.

Reviewer 2: Raised when there is nothing to introduce even after `hnf` has been completely applied.

      :undocumented:

   .. _intro_examples:
   .. example:: `intro` and `intros`

      .. coqtop:: reset out

         Goal forall m n, m < n -> (let x := 0 in True).

      .. coqtop:: all

         intro m.
         intro n.
         intro H.
         intro x.

      This single `intros` tactic is equivalent to the 4 preceding `intro` tactics:

      .. coqtop:: reset out

         Goal forall m n, m < n -> (let x := 0 in True).

>       .. coqtop: all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      .. coqtop:: all
```

         intros m n H x.

.. tacn:: intros {* @intropattern }
          intros until {| @ident | @natural }

      The first form introduces zero or more items into the context from the goal
      using the :n:`intro` tactic.
      If :n:`@intropattern` is not specified, the tactic repeats :tacn:`intro`

>       until it reaches the :term:`head constant`.  The :n:`@intropattern` is

Reviewer 2: I don't know what "until it reaches the head constant" means but it is not true that `intros` will repeat `intro` because `intros` without any argument will not perform any head-normal form reduction. Example:

```coq
Goal ~False.
intros. (* does nothing *)
intro. (introduces H : False *)
```

Author: Don't blame me, I'm just rearranging the old text :-)

It's possible that the foralls are mixed in among the premises--but that's atypical.  See what I did with "head constant"

Author: Please comment further or mark as resolved.

      often just a list of :n:`ident`\s, but other forms can also be specified
      in order to, for example, introduce all quantified variables (`*`);

>       introduce all hypotheses before `->` and all quantified variables (`**`);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      introduce all quantified variables and non-dependent premises (`**`);
```

Author: IIUC in this case, "quantified variables" doesn't include `exists`.  Not going to change it now, but the wording is inconsistent with mathematical usage.  But maybe later if I have a good idea.

Reviewer 2: You are right! Then we shouldn't say quantified variables. And this form would be strictly more correct:
```suggestion
      introduce all dependent and non-dependent premises;
```

>       split terms such as `A /\\ B` and pick a fresh name with a given prefix (`?X`).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      split terms such as `A /\\ B` (`[]`) and pick a fresh name with a given prefix (`?X`).
```

>       See See :ref:`intropatterns`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      See :ref:`intropatterns`.
```

      It can leave the proof context unchanged.

      The second form repeats :n:`intro` until after it has introduced a dependent
      premise with the name :n:`@ident` or has introduced :n:`@natural`
      non-dependent premises.

      .. todo PR: should we discourage use of "until" because it lets Coq pick the names?
         (maintainability issue)
         Also, shall I make "intros until" a separate command?

      .. example::

         On the goal :g:`forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x` the
         tactic :n:`intros until 1` is equivalent to :n:`intros x y H`
         because :g:`x = y -> y = x` is the first non-dependent premise.

         .. todo PR: think I should drop the following example.  z is not
            used on the RHS--unless we can change it so its useful

         On the goal :g:`forall x y z : nat, x = y -> y = x` the
         tactic :n:`intros until 1` is equivalent to :n:`intros x y z`
         as the product on :g:`z` can be rewritten as a non-dependent
         premise: :g:`forall x y : nat, nat -> x = y -> y = x`.

      .. exn:: No such hypothesis in current goal.

         This happens when :token:`natural` is 0 or is greater than the number of

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: As I noted above, the message no longer exists.  I don't think it's urgent to add these 2 messages, either.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Reviewer 2: In this case, these error messages are not generic but specific to this tactic. I don't know why you are talking of the (non-)urgency of documenting error messages, but if you want me to stop digging into the behavior of tactics while we edit this chapter, I can stop.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: I'll add these, but I think it's quite hard to do a good job documenting error messages, particularly if it's not done systematically as a project.  I think the first step is to create tooling to somehow extract all the error messages from the code, which makes it possible to strategize, to prioritize improvements and to track and review ongoing changes to messages.  Associating messages with specific tactics likely requires much more time reading source code than it has for getting the syntax well-documented.  Also unclear where messages used by multiple tactics should appear.  Looking in the messages index is a good strategy for users.

Another part of it is that we should make messages as clear as possible so users generally don't need to reach for the doc to understand them, though certainly need to be written up.

Sure, keep digging into tactics behavior but no deeper than six feet.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: This example is wrong:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/1253341/188238965-a5ebe5e4-fbc2-4819-91e4-793c2aa2fb58.png)

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: Also not keen about using the terms "dependent premise" and "non-dependent premise" anywhere.  Much more understandable to simply show the form (forall or ->).

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Reviewer 2: Yes, error messages would deserve a project on their own, although I'm unfortunately of the opinion that we cannot instrument the Coq code to get the list of all error messages without significantly refactoring the way error messages are generated (which is probably a good idea anyway). Without such a refactoring, a documenting effort around error messages could be to systematically introduce tests for all the error messages that we can find and for every tactic that we can find that triggers them. At least that would help have a good cartography, know what to document and what to improve, and help with making sure that documentation is updated when error messages change.

> What's the significance of "**quantified** hypothesis?

I think it should be understood as meaning strictly the same as a "quantified variable" or "dependent premise". There seem to be too many names for exactly the same thing :/

> Also, I don't see the point of the deprecation if `until 1` is still supported:
> 
> `"intros until 0" is deprecated, use "intros *"; instead of "induction 0" and "destruct 0" use explicitly a name." [deprecated-intros-until-0,tactics]`

Yeah, I agree that deprecating is probably not strictly useful. I guess the point is mostly to remove redundant features.

>This example is wrong:

Yeah, and your fix is right.

>Much more understandable to simply show the form (forall or ->).

I disagree. I think having a consistent terminology helps brevity which can help clarity (especially when explaining more complex behaviors). That being said "non-dependent premise" is a mouthful, and I suggested somewhere else, there are many places where it can be shortened to just "premise". As for "dependent premise", it can also be called "quantified variable", which may be less jargon-esque.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: >>Much more understandable to simply show the form (forall or ->).

> I disagree. I think having a consistent terminology helps brevity which can help clarity (especially when explaining more complex behaviors).

Showing the form is like showing an example, frequently much easier to grasp than a verbal description.  Perhaps not right for all cases.

Using "premise" to generally mean "non-dependent premise" works for me.  It is essentially the common usage.  OTOH, "dependent premise" is not commonly used (e.g. Google search for a definition doesn't match Coq's usage).

WDYT about generally referring to "dependent premises" as "foralls" or "forall variables"?  While no one would use that term  in an academic paper, I think it's instantly understandable even without explanation.  Though of course somewhere we can give the standard terminology.  (Or what other term would you suggest?  "universally quantified variable"? yuck)

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Reviewer: I think it's pretty standard to refer to them simply as "variables". "exists variables" are typically termed constants or definitions.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Reviewer 2: >"exists variables" are typically termed constants or definitions.

Really?

"forall variables" sounds reasonable to me, but I wouldn't have an issue with using "universally quantified variables" here and there and "variables" for short in other places.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: "dependent premise" and "dependent product" are synonyms, right?  Would it make sense to use one consistently (premise) and mention the other in a single place as a synonym?

I see a number of uses of "dependent", such as "dependent pattern matching", "non-dependent binders", "dependent subgoals", "Non-dependent implicit arguments", "dependent evars", "non-dependent construct", "dependent equality", "non-dependent elimination", "dependent types", "dependent hypotheses" and others.

Perhaps it would be good to define "dependent" and "non-dependent" as concepts in addition to "dependent premise", etc.  It means that two or some group of items don't share any variables, right?  Somehow I haven't given any thought to this before...

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Author: FWIW, "nondependent" is preferred in the US while "non-dependent" is preferred in the UK.  Mostly we use the latter in the doc and I think it's a bit easier to read that way.

>          non-dependent products of the goal.

Reviewer 2: >"dependent premise" and "dependent product" are synonyms, right?

IINM "dependent product" is the full term built with a forall. So `forall (x : A), @term`, whereas "dependent premise" is the `(x : A)` part.

>I see a number of uses of "dependent", such as "dependent pattern matching", "non-dependent binders", "dependent subgoals", "Non-dependent implicit arguments", "dependent evars", "non-dependent construct", "dependent equality", "non-dependent elimination", "dependent types", "dependent hypotheses" and others.

Other examples include "dependent pair", "dependent record"... Usually, "dependent" means that the variable defined in a first part of the construct may be used in the type of the latter part of the construct.

>Perhaps it would be good to define "dependent" and "non-dependent" as concepts

Sounds good. This would make sense to define these concepts in some early place in the manual, such as https://coq.inria.fr/refman/language/core/basic.html#essential-vocabulary. But better to keep that for a separate PR where we can involve others in reviewing / advising.

.. tacn:: eintros {* @intropattern }

   Works just like :tacn:`intros` except that it creates existential variables

>    for any unresolved variables rather than failing.

Reviewer 2: Typically, this can happen when using the `%` intro pattern (I don't know of any other use case).

      See :ref:`intropatterns`.

      The second form repeats :n:`intro` until it has introduced a :term:`dependent premise`
      with the name :n:`@ident` or has introduced
      :n:`@natural` :term:`premises <premise>` (like ``A`` in ``A -> B``).

      We recommend explicitly naming items with :tacn:`intros` instead of using
      :n:`intros until @natural`.  See the explanation :ref:`here <warn_should_give_name_in_intro>`.

      .. example:: intros until

         .. coqtop:: reset out

            Goal forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x.

         .. coqtop:: all

            intros until y.

         Or:

         .. coqtop:: reset out

            Goal forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x.

         .. coqtop:: all

            intros until 1.

      .. exn:: No quantified hypothesis named @ident in current goal even after head-reduction.

         The :n:`@ident` in the ``until`` clause doesn't appear as a :term:`dependent premise`.

      .. exn:: No @natural-th non dependent hypothesis in current goal even after head-reduction.

         There are fewer than :n:`@natural` premises in the goal.

.. tacn:: eintros {* @intropattern }

>    Works just like :tacn:`intros` except that it creates existential variables

Reviewer 2: For some reason, this doesn't contain anymore the addition that I had suggested. But that's not a big deal.

Author: Fixed, also restored the eintros change.

      apply Rmp.

.. _managingthelocalcontext:

Managing the local context
------------------------------

.. tacn:: intro {? @ident } {? @where }

   Applies the :tacn:`hnf` tactic until it finds an item that can be
   introduced in the context by removing certain constructs in the goal.
   If no item is found, the tactic fails.  The name used is
   :n:`@ident` (if specified) or from the construct, except that if the name from the
   construct already exists in the :term:`local context`, Coq uses a fresh name
   instead.  The constructs have these forms:
   (See examples :ref:`here <intro_examples>`.)

   :n:`forall x : T, @term`
     If `x` is used in :n:`@term`, `x : T` is a :term:`dependent premise`.  Removes
     `forall x : T,` from the goal and adds `x : T` to the context.

   :n:`A -> …`
     `A` is a :term:`non-dependent premise`.  Removes `A ->` from
     the goal and adds `H : A` to the context.

   :n:`let x := c, @term`

>      If `x` is used in :n:`@term`, removes `let x := c,` from the goal and adds `x := c : T`

Reviewer 2: I discover that you have added "If x is used in term" in your last commit. It happens that in the case of the `intro` tactic, it doesn't matter whether it is or is not used, it will be introduced in the context in all cases. (This matters for `intros *` vs `intros **`.)

Author: I must have tried it with `intros *`.

Reviewer 2: @jfehrle It looks like you haven't fixed this (it still says "If `x` is used").

Author: Got it.  I fixed the one on the "forall" line (which I added in the "last commit", should have done both.  Updated.

      We recommend explicitly naming items with :tacn:`intros` instead of using
      :n:`intros until @natural`.  See the explanation :ref:`here <warn_should_give_name_in_intro>`.

      .. example:: intros until

         .. coqtop:: reset out

            Goal forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x.

         .. coqtop:: all

            intros until y.

         Or:

         .. coqtop:: reset out

            Goal forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x.

         .. coqtop:: all

            intros until 1.

      .. exn:: No quantified hypothesis named @ident in current goal even after head-reduction.

         The :n:`@ident` in the ``until`` clause doesn't appear as a :term:`dependent premise`.

      .. exn:: No @natural-th non dependent hypothesis in current goal even after head-reduction.

         There are fewer than :n:`@natural` premises in the goal.

.. tacn:: eintros {* @intropattern }

   Works just like :tacn:`intros` except that it creates existential variables
   for any unresolved variables rather than failing.  Typically this happens when
   using a ``%`` intropattern (see :n:`@simple_intropattern`).

> .. tacn:: clear {| {? {? - } {+ @ident } } | @natural }

Reviewer 2: Since I've noticed something else to change above, let me point out that this `clear` line, ideally should have been kept unchanged in this PR. But no big deal if it isn't.

      apply Rmp.

.. _managingthelocalcontext:

Managing the local context
------------------------------

.. tacn:: intro {? @ident } {? @where }

   Applies the :tacn:`hnf` tactic until it finds an item that can be
   introduced in the context by removing certain constructs in the goal.
   If no item is found, the tactic fails.  The name used is from
   :n:`@ident` (if specified) or the construct, except that if the name from the
   construct already exists in the :term:`local context`, Coq uses a fresh name
   instead.  The constructs have these forms:
   (See examples :ref:`here <intro_examples>`.)

   `forall x : T, …`
     `x T` is a :term:`dependent premise`.  Removes `forall x`
     from the goal and adds `x : T` to the context.

   `A -> B`
     `A` is a :term:`non-dependent premise`.  Removes `A ->` from
     the goal and adds `H : A` to the context.

   `let x := c, …`
     Removes `let x := c,` from the goal and adds `x := c : T`
     to the context.

   .. todo PR

>      Need an example of an existential variable

Author: I guess not related to `intro`.  (I don't know/recall how you deal with `exists` goals.  For another day.)

>      Need an example of an existential variable

Reviewer 2: Oh, OK, but note that "existential variable" in Coq's terminology usually means `?X` (things that you can obtain after calling `eapply` for instance) and not a variable bound by an `exists`.

>      Need an example of an existential variable

Author: That seems inconsistent with the mathematical notion of existential quantifiers.  A poor choice of terminology but unlikely we'll ever change it.

>      Need an example of an existential variable

Reviewer 2: It is actually semantically close to the notion of existential quantifiers since "existential variables" are things that we don't know yet but assume exist. Anyway, like you said, this is not a terminology that is ever likely to change.

.. _warn_should_give_name_in_intro:

   We recommend always specifying :n:`@ident` so that the names of hypotheses don't
   change as the proof is updated, making your proof easier to maintain.  For example,
   if H exists in the context, Coq will consider using `H0`, `H1`, ... until it finds an
   unused name.  Modifications to a proof can change automatically assigned names
   that subsequent tactics likely refer to, making the proofs harder to maintain.  The

>    :flag:`Mangle Names` flag gives some control over how fresh names are generated.

Author: The reader could just click on the flag to jump to (the middle) of that section. 
 We're going to spoil readers and make them weak and lazy :-)

>    :flag:`Mangle Names` flag gives some control over how fresh names are generated.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I know, but the issue I have is that readers might not get the issue to scroll up to understand the point of this flag.

   Note that :tacn:`intros` lets you introduce multiple items into
   the context with a single tactic.

   :n:`@ident`
     The name to give to the introduced item.  If not given, Coq uses the
     variable name from the :n:`forall` or `H` for premises.
     If a name such as `H` is already in use, Coq will consider using `H0`,
     `H1`, ... until it finds a fresh name.

     .. note::

        If a hypothesis name hides the base name of a global constant then
        the latter can still be referred to by a qualified name
        (see :ref:`Qualified-names`).

   :n:`@where`
     Indicates where to place the introduced hypothesis: at the top or bottom
     of the context or before or after another specified hypothesis.  The default
     is `at bottom`.

   .. exn:: @ident is already used.

>       :n:`@ident` is already used in the :term:`local context`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      The provided :n:`@ident` is already used in the :term:`local context`.
```

   .. exn:: No product even after head-reduction.

      There is nothing to introduce even after :tacn:`hnf` has been completely applied.

   .. _intro_examples:
   .. example:: `intro` and `intros`

      .. coqtop:: reset out

         Goal forall m n, m < n -> (let x := 0 in True).

      .. coqtop:: all

         intro m.
         intro n.
         intro H.
         intro x.

      This single `intros` tactic is equivalent to the 4 preceding `intro` tactics:

      .. coqtop:: reset out

         Goal forall m n, m < n -> (let x := 0 in True).

      .. coqtop:: all

         intros m n H x.

.. tacn:: intros {* @intropattern }
          intros until {| @ident | @natural }

      The first form introduces zero or more items into the context from the
      constructs listed in :tacn:`intro`.  If :n:`@intropattern` is not specified,
      the tactic introduces items until it reaches the :term:`head constant`.

      If :n:`@intropattern` is specified, the :tacn:`hnf` tactic is applied until
      it finds an item that can be introduced into the context.
      The :n:`@intropattern` is

>       often just a list of :n:`ident`\s, but other forms can also be specified

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      often just a list of :n:`@ident`\s, but other forms can also be specified
```

>       in order to, for example, introduce all :n:`forall` :term:`variables <variable>` (`*`);

Reviewer 2: This definition does not seem to be appropriate in this context (it talks about variables already introduced in the context). I suggest to just remove this link (forall variables is clear enough, and is even used in the linked definition BTW).
```suggestion
      in order to, for example, introduce all :n:`forall` variables (`*`);
```

>       introduce all :n:`forall variables` and :term:`premises <premise>` (`**`);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      introduce all :n:`forall` variables and :term:`premises <premise>` (`**`);
```

      split terms such as `A /\\ B` (`[]`) and pick a fresh name with a given prefix (`?X`).
      See :ref:`intropatterns`.

> ** when hnf

Reviewer 2: What is this?
```suggestion
```

      This form never reduces the :term:`head constant` and it never fails.

>       It can leave the proof context unchanged.

Reviewer 2: I suggest removing this paragraph because it is wrong (it is only true in the case where `intros` is used without arguments). I suggest adding the information that it never fails and it can leave the proof context unchanged to the sentence of the first paragraph that describes what happens when `intropattern` is not specified.

      The second form repeats :n:`intro` until it has introduced a :n:`forall`
      variable with the name :n:`@ident` or has introduced

>       :n:`@natural` premises (like ``A`` in ``A -> B``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      :n:`@natural` :term:`premises <premise>`.
```

      We recommend explicitly naming items with :tacn:`intros` instead of using
      :n:`intros until @natural`.  See the explanation :ref:`here <warn_should_give_name_in_intro>`.

      .. example:: intros until

         .. coqtop:: reset out

            Goal forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x.

         .. coqtop:: all

            intros until y.

         Or:

         .. coqtop:: reset out

            Goal forall x y : nat, x = y -> y = x.

         .. coqtop:: all

            intros until 1.

      .. exn:: No quantified hypothesis named @ident in current goal even after head-reduction.

>          The :n:`@ident` in the ``until`` doesn't appear in an initial ``forall``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
         The :n:`@ident` in the ``until`` clause doesn't appear in as a ``forall`` variable.
```
